### Erasure coding 101

Reed–Solomon error correction provides the base for Erasure Coding (EC). The basic idea
is the for `n` bits of data **X** = (x<sub>1</sub>, x<sub>2</sub>, ... x<sub>n</sub>),
one can provide `m` bits of *parity* **P** = (p<sub>1</sub>, p<sub>2</sub>, ...  p<sub>m</sub>)
using an *m x n* matrix **S** so that 

S X<sup>T</sup> = P

If one bit of **X** is missing, it can be calculated using the above formula. There
are several ways to choose the matrix **S**. Those details are beyond the scope of this
document.

Xrootd uses Intel’s Intelligent Storage Acceleration Library (ISA-L) for erasure coding. 
The functionality of ISA-L and its associated computing is performed in xrootd's client
library XrdCl. Data chunks (that belongs to a single file) on each node are stored in a 
single xrootd ZIP archive. 

### Architecture of using EC in xrootd

Because the EC function is implemented in the xrootd client library, a vanilla xrootd 
cluster isn't actually aware of EC at all. It just provides storage for EC enabled xrootd 
client to store data. The xrootd cluster needs at least ** n + m ** data servers.

There are two ways to use EC in a xrootd cluster enviroment:

1. Using up-to-dated xrootd client tools such as `xrdcp`, `xrdfs` and `xrootdfs`. 
   Because the up-to-dated xrootd clients are required, this method is usually only
   good for adminstrators.
2. Putting the xrootd cluster behind a xrootd proxy. The XrdCl (and XrdEC) componments
   in the proxy handles the EC. This is the perferred way as it works with any xrootd
   or http clients. The proxy also support WLCG TPC.

This document assumes that the administrators will use EC enabled `xrdcp/xrdfs/xrootdfs`
for adminstrative tasks such as restore data from drive failure, moving and deleting 
data, etc. Users will use the xrootd proxy to access data.
